[CONTENT] 0.4.15 press release (#133)
reactos/web-content: content/project-news/reactos-0415-released.md

---
title:       "ReactOS 0.4.15 released"
author:      "ReactOS Team"
date:        2025-03-21
tags:        [ "release" ]
banner:      "img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/thumb.png"
---

We are pleased to announce the release of ReactOS 0.4.15!
This release offers USB boot fixes, audio fixes, memory management fixes, registry healing, improvements to accessories and system tools including Notepad, Paint, the Input Method Editor, and shell improvements.

We chose to release this version of ReactOS in honor of Eric Kohl's [first commit](https://git.reactos.org/?p=reactos.git;a=commit;h=108fcceee22216b169b448932bb3f86c81b9448e) to the ReactOS code base, which dates back to the 1999 year.

> Eric Kohl is the oldest active contributor to the ReactOS project, and this is his 26th ReactOS anniversary!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Eric Kohl is the oldest active contributor of the project, and this is his 26th ReactOS anniversary!
```

---
title:       "ReactOS 0.4.15 released"
author:      "ReactOS Team"
date:        2025-03-01
tags:        [ "release" ]
banner:      "img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/thumb.png"
---

We are pleased to announce the release of ReactOS 0.4.15! There are some great new features including improvements to accessories such as notepad and paint, explorer shell, input method editor, registry healing, USB boot, Audio, memory management, ISA bus driver, and kernel debugger.

This release is a culmination of the work of countless contributors since 0.4.14 was branched in 2020. This has been the largest release to date. There are nearly 8 times more commits this release than in 0.4.14. We are extremely proud of the progress we have made, and cannot wait to continue in this growth. Development on ReactOS has been growing exponentially! Let's dive in and see what's new.

## Accessories and System Tools

> Katayama Hirofumi implemented quality of life improvements, performance enhancements, and new features such as the "text tool" in Paint and the "Now Printing" dialog in Notepad.

Reviewer 2: Here, Katayama Hirofumi and Katayama Hirofumi MZ (katahiromz) are the same guy. Please unify notation.

Katayama has built out the Input Method Editor (or IME), which is a component that facilitates the typing of characters not originally present on the input devices by using a sequence of characters. This improves CJK support and allows installation of custom IMEs for different locales. Additionally, Japanese ReactOS recognizes and can use MZ-IME Japanese input.
**Image here would be nice.**

## Explorer Shell

> In 0.4.15 the Explorer shell was improved by Doug Lyons, Katayama Hirofumi MZ (katahiromz) and Carl Bialorucki (cbialorucki). They added the toolbar icon display, ZIP archive support, taskbar icons, and the addition of an "Internet Browser" icon on the desktop.

Reviewer 2: On Zip Archive support, we might have to raise the name of @learn-more.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion:@learn
```- ZIP archive support```
```+ ZIP archive support (courtesy of Mark Jansen)```

> In 0.4.15 the Explorer shell was improved by Doug Lyons, Katayama Hirofumi MZ (katahiromz) and Carl Bialorucki (cbialorucki). They added the toolbar icon display, ZIP archive support, taskbar icons, and the addition of an "Internet Browser" icon on the desktop.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In 0.4.15 the Explorer shell was improved by Doug Lyons, Katayama Hirofumi MZ and Carl Bialorucki (cbialorucki). They added the toolbar icon display, ZIP archive support, taskbar icons, and the addition of an "Internet Browser" icon on the desktop.
```

---
title:       "ReactOS 0.4.15 released"
author:      "ReactOS Team"
date:        2025-03-01
tags:        [ "release" ]
banner:      "img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/thumb.png"
---

We are pleased to announce the release of ReactOS 0.4.15!

> This release offers improvements to accessories and system tools including Notepad, Paint and the Input Method Editor, shell improvements, registry healing, USB boot fixes, audio fixes, and memory management fixes.

Reviewer 4: TBH I would reorder this:
```suggestion
This release offers USB boot fixes, audio fixes, memory management fixes, registry healing, improvements to accessories and system tools including Notepad, Paint and the Input Method Editor and shell improvements.
```

This release is a culmination of the work of countless contributors since 0.4.14 was branched in 2020.
This has been the largest release to date.

> There are nearly 8 times more commits this release than in 0.4.14.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
There are nearly 8 times more commits going into this release than in 0.4.14.
```

We are proud of the progress we have made, and are eager to continue with this growth.
The pace of development for ReactOS has been growing exponentially.
Let's dive in and see what's new.

## Accessories and System Tools
Katayama Hirofumi MZ (katahiromz) has been hard at work making quality of life improvements, performance enhancements, and new features in system accessories such as the text tool in Paint and the "Now Printing" dialog in Notepad.

> Katayama has also improved the Input Method Editor (or IME), which is a component that types characters not originally present on the connected input devices by using a sequence of characters.

Reviewer 4: I am unsure if this is the proper way to refer to someone from japan (by what we perceive to be their first name)

Author: I changed it so we only either use his full name or use pronouns.

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/large_taskbar.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/large_taskbar.png" >}}

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/zip_extract_wizard.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/zip_extract_wizard.png" >}}

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/zip_virtual_folder.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/zip_virtual_folder.png" >}}

In this release, we also decided to set the default visual style and wallpaper to Mizu. The classic theme is still available, as well as two more visual styles: Lunar and Modern. Even more visual styles are available in the ReactOS Application Manager. No matter your preference, ReactOS has a theme for you.

## Registry Healing and Caching
Fundamental mechanisms of the system registry have been implemented courtesy of George Bișoc (GeoB99).
These mechanisms include registry healing, registry flushing, and registry caching.

> fundamental functions that protect the registry from corruption.

Reviewer 4: I think you can drop this sentence entirely

Registry healing and registry flushing are both designed to improve system stability when faced with an unexpected power outage or a crash.
Registry healing applies appropriate fixes to a corrupted registry and registry flushing periodically writes registry changes to the disk, ensuring registry changes persist even if the system is not cleanly shut down.
Registry caching improves performance when accessing the registry.

## Security Subsystem
George Bișoc also improved the Security Subsystem (Se) of the kernel.
Prior to George's work, kernel access checks always passed; allowing anyone to access any system object.
Now, kernel access checks are fully functional and prevent unauthorized access to system objects.

## Audio

> Thanks to the work of Oleg Dubinsky, 0.4.15 features many audio improvements. Oleg added support for more audio formats, looped playback of wave files, higher sample rates, and multiple output channels. In addition, Victor Perevertkin (Extravert-ir) imported the open source AC97 driver from the Windows Driver Kit (WDK). This enables sound out of the box in VirtualBox when the virtual machine is configured to use the ICH AC97 Audio Controller.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Thanks to the work of Oleg Dubinskiy, 0.4.15 features many audio improvements. Oleg added support for more audio formats, looped playback of wave files, higher sample rates, and multiple output channels. In addition, Victor Perevertkin (Extravert-ir) imported the open source AC97 driver from the Windows Driver Kit (WDK). This enables sound out of the box in VirtualBox when the virtual machine is configured to use the ICH AC97 Audio Controller.
```

---
title:       "ReactOS 0.4.15 released"
author:      "ReactOS Team"

> date:        2025-03-01

Reviewer 3: 2025-03-21

Author: I gave it an older date so that I can see how the announcement looks on the homepage. I will update this before it goes live.

tags:        [ "release" ]
banner:      "img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/thumb.png"
---

> We are pleased to announce the release of ReactOS 0.4.15! We have improvements to accessories and system tools including Notepad, Paint and the Input Method Editor, shell improvements, registry healing, USB boot fixes, audio fixes, memory management fixes, ISA bus driver fixes, and a new kernel debugger.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion:
-  We have improvements to 
+ There have been improvements to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are pleased to announce the release of ReactOS 0.4.15! There have been improvements to accessories and system tools including Notepad, Paint and the Input Method Editor, shell improvements, registry healing, USB boot fixes, audio fixes, memory management fixes, ISA bus driver fixes, and a new kernel debugger.
```

> This release is a culmination of the work of countless contributors since 0.4.14 was branched in 2020. This has been the largest release to date. There are nearly 8 times more commits this release than in 0.4.14. We are extremely proud of the progress we have made, and cannot wait to continue in this growth. Development on ReactOS has been growing exponentially! Let's dive in and see what's new.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion:
```- cannot wait to continue in this growth. Development on```
```+ cannot wait to continue with this growth. The development of```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This release is a culmination of the work of countless contributors since 0.4.14 was branched in 2020. This has been the largest release to date. There are nearly 8 times more commits this release than in 0.4.14. We are extremely proud of the progress we have made, and cannot wait to continue with this growth. The development of ReactOS has been growing exponentially! Let's dive in and see what's new.
```

**Talk about Zip support here (Thanks katayama, mark)**

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/zip_extract_wizard.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/zip_extract_wizard.png" >}}

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/zip_virtual_folder.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/zip_virtual_folder.png" >}}

## Explorer Shell
In 0.4.15 the Explorer shell was improved by Doug Lyons, Katayama Hirofumi MZ (katahiromz) and Carl Bialorucki (cbialorucki). They added the toolbar icon display, ZIP archive support, taskbar icons, and the addition of an "Internet Browser" icon on the desktop.

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/large_taskbar.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/large_taskbar.png" >}}

## Registry Healing
Registry self-healing mechanisms and CmCheckRegistry have been implemented courtesy of George Bișoc. These are fundamental functions that validate the registry. For any corrupted parts of the registry appropriate actions in recovering a registry hive from corrupt parts is activated.

> Registry flusher of ReactOS has been fixed, and registry cache implementation is new.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion:
```- Registry flusher of ReactOS has been fixed, and registry cache implementation is new.```
```+ Registry flushing in ReactOS has been fixed and the registry cache implementation has been improved.```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Registry flushing in ReactOS has been fixed and the registry cache implementation has been improved.
```

---
title:       "ReactOS 0.4.15 released"
author:      "ReactOS Team"
date:        2025-03-21
tags:        [ "release" ]
banner:      "img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/thumb.png"
---

We are pleased to announce the release of ReactOS 0.4.15!

> This release offers USB boot fixes, audio fixes, memory management fixes, registry healing, improvements to accessories and system tools including Notepad, Paint, and the Input Method Editor, and shell improvements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release offers USB boot fixes, audio fixes, memory management fixes, registry healing, improvements to accessories and system tools including Notepad, Paint, the Input Method Editor, and shell improvements.
```

---
title:       "ReactOS 0.4.15 released"
author:      "ReactOS Team"
date:        2025-03-01
tags:        [ "release" ]
banner:      "img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/thumb.png"
---

We are pleased to announce the release of ReactOS 0.4.15!
This release offers improvements to accessories and system tools including Notepad, Paint and the Input Method Editor, shell improvements, registry healing, USB boot fixes, audio fixes, and memory management fixes.

> This release is a culmination of the work of countless contributors since 0.4.14 was branched in 2020.

Reviewer 4: imo the original is fine

> This release is a culmination of the work of countless contributors since 0.4.14 was branched in 2020.

Reviewer: Well, maybe replace "countless" with "numerous" at least.

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/large_taskbar.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/large_taskbar.png" >}}

**Talk about Zip support here (Thanks katayama, mark)**

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/zip_extract_wizard.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/zip_extract_wizard.png" >}}

{{< figure link="/img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/zip_virtual_folder.png" src="/img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/zip_virtual_folder.png" >}}

## Registry Healing and Caching
Fundamental mechanisms of the system registry have been implemented courtesy of George Bișoc (GeoB99).
These mechanisms include registry healing, registry flushing, and registry caching.
fundamental functions that protect the registry from corruption.
Registry healing and registry flushing are both designed to improve system stability when faced with an unexpected power outage or a crash.
Registry healing applies appropriate fixes to a corrupted registry and registry flushing periodically writes registry changes to the disk, ensuring registry changes persist even if the system is not cleanly shut down.

> Registry caching improves performance when accessing the registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Registry caching improves performance when accessing it.
```

## Security Subsystem
George Bișoc also improved the Security Subsystem (Se) of the kernel.

> Prior to George's work, kernel access checks always passed; allowing anyone to access any system object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prior to George's work, kernel access checks always passed, allowing anyone to access any system object.
```

Now, kernel access checks are fully functional and prevent unauthorized access to system objects.

## USB Boot
Victor Perevertkin has accomplished major code cleanup and refactoring for better compatibility with Windows drivers and USB booting.
(PnP and I/O Kernel stack)

## Audio
Thanks to the work of Oleg Dubinsky, 0.4.15 features many audio improvements.
- Handling modern audio formats, looped wave playback, and support for high sample rates and multiple output channels.
- **Is this disabled?**

## Memory Manager and Cache Controller
The Section Objects feature has been refactored by Jérôme Gardou for better compatibility with Windows.

> This fixes a long-standing bug preventing executables from starting from remote locations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This fixes a long-standing bug preventing executables from starting from remote locations, such as network shares or virtual machine shared folders.
```

> Another long-standing bug has been fixed which prevented starting of executables from remote locations (CORE-10038).

Reviewer: This sentence basically repeats the previous.

Author: thats great, im not done

Author: Sorry about the previous reply, it was no big deal I just wanted to push what I was working on so y'all could review it while I was in the air 😅

Reviewer: It's still in draft state though, I could have waited a bit with splitting the sentences per line 🙂

Eric Kohl is the oldest active contributor of the project, and this is his 26th ReactOS anniversary!
He is participating in the project as a developer basically since its beginnings.

![Eric Kohl's commit activity on GitHub](/img/project-news/reactos-0415-released/EricKohl.png)

This release is a culmination of the work of countless contributors since 0.4.14 was branched in 2020.
This has been the largest release to date.
There are nearly 8 times more commits going into this release than in 0.4.14.
We are proud of the progress we have made, and are eager to continue with this growth.
The pace of development for ReactOS has been growing exponentially.
Let's dive in and see what's new.

## USB Boot
Victor Perevertkin (Extravert-ir) has accomplished major code cleanup and refactoring for better compatibility with Windows drivers and USB booting.
(PnP and I/O Kernel stack) **NEEDS TO BE FINISHED**

Johannes Anderwald (janderwald) solved an issue where the USB driver would enter an infinite loop when a USB device would not enter the ready state. Fixing this infinite loop allowed ReactOS to boot on more hardware.

## Audio

> Thanks to the work of Oleg Dubinskiy, 0.4.15 features many audio improvements. Oleg added support for more audio formats, looped playback of wave files, higher sample rates, and multiple output channels. In addition, Victor Perevertkin imported the open source AC97 driver from the Windows Driver Kit (WDK). This enables sound out of the box in VirtualBox when the virtual machine is configured to use the ICH AC97 Audio Controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to the work of Oleg Dubinskiy, 0.4.15 features many audio improvements. Oleg added support for more audio formats, looped playback of wave files, higher sample rates, and multiple output channels. In addition, Victor Perevertkin imported the open source AC'97 driver from the Windows Driver Kit (WDK). This enables sound out of the box in VirtualBox when the virtual machine is configured to use the ICH AC'97 Audio Controller.
```

## Memory Manager and Cache Controller
Section Objects have been refactored by Jérôme Gardou (zefklop) for better compatibility with Windows. This fixes a long-standing bug preventing executables from starting in remote locations, such as network shares or virtual machine shared folders.

> Because of improvements in the memory manager and cache controller, we can now import the open source Microsoft FAT filesystem driver from the Windows Driver Kit (WDK). This FAT filesystem driver is a huge improvement from the old FAT filesystem driver which was slower and less stable. Additionally, external drives with FAT filesystem can now be properly ejected thanks to this new driver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of improvements in the memory manager and cache controller, we can now import the open source Microsoft FAT filesystem driver from the Windows Driver Kit (WDK). This FAT filesystem driver is a huge improvement from the old one, which was slower and less stable. Additionally, external drives with FAT filesystem can now be properly ejected thanks to this new driver.
```

## Registry Healing and Caching
Fundamental mechanisms of the system registry have been implemented courtesy of George Bișoc (GeoB99).

> These mechanisms include registry healing, registry flushing, and registry caching.
> Registry healing and registry flushing are both designed to improve system stability when faced with an unexpected power outage or a crash.
> Registry healing applies appropriate fixes to a corrupted registry and registry flushing periodically writes registry changes to the disk, ensuring registry changes persist even if the system is not cleanly shut down.
> Registry caching improves performance when accessing it.

Reviewer: Reduce repeating "Registry" word:
```suggestion
These mechanisms include registry healing, flushing, and caching.
Registry healing and flushing are both designed to improve system stability when faced with an unexpected power outage or a crash.
Healing applies appropriate fixes to a corrupted registry and flushing periodically writes registry changes to the disk, ensuring registry changes persist even if the system is not cleanly shut down.
Caching improves performance when accessing it.
```
